Usr/jasteph/win ui gs (#797)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/gettingstarted/winui.md

---
description: Host web content in your WinUI app with the Microsoft Edge WebView 2 control
title: Microsoft Edge WebView 2 for WinUI apps
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: jasteph .
ms.date: 07/01/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
keywords: WebView2, webview2, WebView, webview, winui apps, winui, edge, CoreWebView2, browser control, edge html, getting started, Getting Started, .NET
---

# Getting started with WebView2 in WinUI3 (Preview)

In this article, get started creating your first WebView2 app and learn about the main features of [WebView2 (preview)](../index.md).  For more information on individual APIs, see [API reference](../reference/dotnet/0-9-538-reference-webview2.md).  

## Prerequisites  

Ensure you installed the following list of pre-requisites before proceeding:  

* Make sure that your development computer has Windows 10, version 1803 (build 17134), or a later version installed. WinUI 3 for desktop apps requires 1803 or a later OS version.
* [Microsoft Edge (Chromium) Canary channel](https://www.microsoftedgeinsider.com/download) installed on Windows 10, Windows 8.1, or Windows 7.

> * Install Visual Studio 2019, version 16.7 Preview 1. For details, see these [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/winui/winui3/#configure-your-dev-environment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install Visual Studio 2019, version 16.7 Preview 1. For details, see these [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/apps/winui/winui3/#configure-your-dev-environment).
```

* Install both x64 and x86 versions of .NET 5 Preview 4:
    * [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet/net5/preview4/Sdk/dotnet-sdk-win-x64.exe) 
    * [x86](https://aka.ms/dotnet/net5/preview4/Sdk/dotnet-sdk-win-x86.exe)
* Install the VSIX extension that includes the WinUI 3.0 Preview 1 project templates for Visual Studio 2019. Link [here](https://aka.ms/winui3/previewdownload).

> * Enable [Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development) to ensure full Visual Studio feature functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable [Developer Mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development) to ensure full Visual Studio feature functionality.
```

             WPF core
          :::image-end:::
       :::column-end:::
    
4.  Select the **Blank App, Packaged (WinUI in Desktop)** project type and click Next.
1. Enter a project name, choose any other options as desired, and click Create.
1. In the following dialog box, set the: 
    * Target version to **Windows 10, version 1903 (build 18362)** or later
    * Minimum version to **Windows 10, version 1803 (build 17134)** 
    * Click OK.

    
    :::row:::
           :::column span="1":::
              :::image type="complex" source="./media/winui-gettingstarted-projecttype.png" alt-text="Create core":::
                 Create core
              :::image-end:::
           :::column-end:::
           
    
7.  At this point, Visual Studio generates two projects (Located in the Solution Explorer):
    * **Project name (Desktop)**: This project contains your app's code. The App.xaml.cs code file defines an Application class that represents your app instance, and the MainWindow.xaml.cs code file defines a MainWindow class that represents the main window displayed by your app. These classes derive from types in the Microsoft.UI.Xaml namespace provided by WinUI.
  

>     * **Project name (Package)**: This is a [Windows Application Packaging Project](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/msix/desktop/desktop-to-uwp-packaging-dot-net) that is configured to build the app into an MSIX package for deployment. This project contains the [package manifest](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/schema-root) for your app, and it is the startup project for your solution by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Project name (Package)**: This is a [Windows Application Packaging Project](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/msix/desktop/desktop-to-uwp-packaging-dot-net) that is configured to build the app into an MSIX package for deployment. This project contains the [package manifest](https://docs.microsoft.com/uwp/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/schema-root) for your app, and it is the startup project for your solution by default.
```

        args.Cancel = true;
    }
    else
    {
        addressBar.Text = uri;
    }
}
```  

Press `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that the application displays an alert when you navigate to a site that does not use HTTPS.  

:::image type="complex" source="./media/winui-gettingstarted-script.png" alt-text="HTTPS":::
   HTTPS
:::image-end:::  

**Congratulations, you built your first WebView2 app!**
  
## Future Plans  

Our team is currently working on building out our APIs to provide full WebView2 functionality! For more information of the current state of our API click [here](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml-specs/blob/master/active/WebView2/WebView2_spec.md). 

> [!NOTE]
> This API may ship before the WinRT CoreWebView2 object, meaning functionality of the Webview2 would be limited to the APIs included in the above document for some interim period of time. 

*   For a comprehensive example of WebView2 capabilities, see [WebView2Samples repo](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples) on GitHub.  
*   For more information about  WebView2, see [WebView2 Resources](../index.md#next-steps).  

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a "Next Steps" section here to keep users engaged with content:
Point to WinUI Docs, our Sample Apps, etc. whatever you think is best!

Author: I renamed the Future Plans to Next Steps - they are essentially doing the same thing!

---
description:  Host web content in your WinUI app with the Microsoft Edge WebView 2 control
title:  Microsoft Edge WebView 2 for WinUI apps
author:  MSEdgeTeam
ms.author:  msedgedevrel
ms.date:  07/15/2020
ms.topic:  conceptual
ms.prod:  microsoft-edge
ms.technology:  webview
keywords:  WebView2, webview2, WebView, webview, winui apps, winui, edge, CoreWebView2, browser control, edge html, getting started, Getting Started, .NET
---

# Getting started with WebView2 in WinUI3 (Preview)  

> On the following page, get started creating your first WebView2 app and learn about the main features of [WebView2 (preview)][Webview2Index].  For more information on individual APIs, see [API reference][GithubMicrosoftUiXamlSpecsWebview2].  

Author: Yes, this is the correct link

    > Verify that you entered a complete URL in the address bar.  An `ArgumentException` exception is thrown if the URL does not start with `http://` or `https://`.  
    
    :::image type="complex" source="./media/winui-gettingstarted-bing.png" alt-text="Bing.com" lightbox="./media/winui-gettingstarted-bing.png":::
       Bing.com  
    :::image-end:::  
    
## Step 4 - Navigation events  

The application that hosts WebView2 controls listens to the following events that are raised by the WebView2 control during navigation to web pages.  

*   `NavigationStarting`  
*   `SourceChanged`  
*   `ContentLoading`  
*   `HistoryChanged`  
*   `NavigationCompleted`  
    
For more information, see [Navigation Events][Webviews2ReferenceWin3209488Icorewebview2NavigationEvents].  

When an error occurs, the following events are raised and may depend on navigation to an error page.  

*   `SourceChanged`  
*   `ContentLoading`  
*   `HistoryChanged`  
    
When there is an HTTP redirect, there are multiple `NavigationStarting` events.  

To demonstrate how to use the events, start by registering a handler for `NavigationStarting` event that cancels any requests that do not use HTTPS.  

> In `MainWindow.xaml.cs`, modify the constructor as shown below and add the `EnsureHttps` function.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```csharp
public MainWindow()
{
    InitializeComponent();
    MyWebView.NavigationStarting += EnsureHttps;
}

private void EnsureHttps(WebView2 sender, WebView2NavigationStartingEventArgs args)
{
    String uri = args.Uri;
    if (!uri.StartsWith("https://"))
    {
        args.Cancel = true;
    }
    else
    {
        addressBar.Text = uri;
    }
}
```  

> In the constructor, EnsureHttps is registered as the event handler on the `NavigationStarting` event on the WebView2 control.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> Press `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that when navigating to an HTTP site, the WebView remains unchanged.  However, the WebView navigates to HTTPS sites.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Choose `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that navigation is blocked to HTTP sites, and allowed for HTTPS sites.  
```

## Step 5 - Scripting  

> You may use host applications to inject JavaScript code into WebView2 controls at runtime.  The injected JavaScript applies to all new top level documents and any child frames until the JavaScript is removed.  The injected JavaScript is run after creation of the global object, and before any other script included in the HTML document is run.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Host applications may inject JavaScript code into WebView2 controls at runtime.  The injected JavaScript applies to all new top level documents and any child frames until the JavaScript is removed.  The injected JavaScript is run after creation of the global object, and before any other script included in the HTML document is run.  
```

> You may use scripting to alert the user when navigating to a non-HTTPS site.  Modify the `EnsureHttps` function, so that it injects script into the web content using the [ExecuteScriptAsync][Webviews2ReferenceWpf09515MicrosoftWebExecutescriptasync] method.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an example, add scripts to alert users when they navigate to non-HTTPS sites.  Modify the `EnsureHttps` function to inject a script into the web content using [ExecuteScriptAsync][Webviews2ReferenceWpf09515MicrosoftWebExecutescriptasync].  
```

```csharp
private void EnsureHttps(WebView2 sender, WebView2NavigationStartingEventArgs args)
{
    String uri = args.Uri;
    if (!uri.StartsWith("https://"))
    {
        MyWebView.ExecuteScriptAsync($"alert('{uri} is not safe, try an https link')");
        args.Cancel = true;
    }
    else
    {
        addressBar.Text = uri;
    }
}
```  

> Press `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that your application displays an alert when you navigate to a site that does not use HTTPS.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Choose `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that your application displays an alert when you navigate to a site that does not use HTTPS.  
```

> :::image type="complex" source="./media/winui-gettingstarted-script.png" alt-text="HTTP alert" lightbox="./media/winui-gettingstarted-script.png":::
>    HTTP alert  
> :::image-end:::  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::image type="complex" source="./media/winui-gettingstarted-script.png" alt-text="WebView2 control showing an alert dialog" lightbox="./media/winui-gettingstarted-script.png":::
   WebView2 control showing an alert dialog
:::image-end:::  
```

> > [!NOTE]
> > Congratulations, you built your first WebView2 app.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Congratulations, you built your first WebView2 app.  
```

## Next Steps  

> Our team is currently working on building out the WebView2 APIs to provide full WebView2 functionality.  For more information of the current state of the WebView2 API, see [WebView2 spec][GithubMicrosoftUiXamlSpecsWebview2].  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our team is currently building more WebView2 APIs.  For more information on the current state of WebView2 APIs, see the [WebView2 spec][GithubMicrosoftUiXamlSpecsWebview2].  
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The API may ship before the WinRT CoreWebView2 object, meaning functionality of the Webview2 would be limited to the APIs included in the above document for some interim period of time.  

Reviewer 3: Can you clarify the sentence above please? 
"The API may ship..." - which API does this refer to?

> *   For a comprehensive example of WebView2 capabilities, see [WebView2Samples repo][GithubMicrosoftedgeWebview2samplesMain] on GitHub.  
> *   For more information about WebView2, see [WebView2 Resources][Webview2IndexNextSteps].  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about WebView2 capabilities, see [WebView2 Concepts and How-To guides][Webview2IndexNextSteps], and the [WebView2 samples repo][GithubMicrosoftedgeWebview2samplesMain].  
```

## Getting in touch with the Microsoft Edge WebView team  

> Help build a richer WebView2 experience by sharing your feedback.  Visit the Microsoft Edge WebView [feedback repo][GithubMicrosoftedgeWebviewfeedback] to submit feature requests or bug reports or search for known issues.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Help build a richer WebView2 experience by sharing your feedback.  Visit the Microsoft Edge WebView [feedback repo][GithubMicrosoftedgeWebviewfeedback] to submit feature requests or bug reports, or to search for known issues.  
```
